 Taste of Tibetan culture and history in Majnu-ka-tilla 



When you are in Delhi and feel the need to do something different, something cultural, head to Majnu-ka-tilla in North Delhi. It is one of the best places in the city to hang out, experience Tibetan culture and get some seriously good food and an even better vibe.
Majnu-ka-tilla, locally called MT, is a predominantly Tibetan neighbourhood (settlement), officially called New Aruna Nagar Colony. It is also called Chungtown and Samyeling. And for those who are still confused, it is a stone’s throw from the Delhi University North Campus.
Majnu-ka-tilla sits right next to Yamuna river bank. As per the area’s history, during the Delhi Sultanate period, an Iranian Sufi mystic Abdulla, who also went by the name of Majnu, met Guru Nanak Dev on the banks of the Yamuna. After seeing that Majnu ferried people across the river for free, as a service to God, Guru Nanak Dev was mighty impressed. As a result, Guru Nanak Dev stayed in the area for a month or so. This was also why the area came to be known as Majnu-ka-tilla (Majnu’s mound or hill).
To commemorate this stay, Baghel Singh Dhaliwal, a Sikh military leader, built the present-day Majnu ka Tila Gurudwara. The gurudwara is one of the oldest gurudwaras in Delhi.
This is also the place where, back in 1959-60, many Tibetan refugees landed after the Dalai Lama went into exile to Dharamsala. These handful of Tibetans started living in a small refugee camp on the banks of Yamuna. Soon the Government of India allotted this small patch of land to the refugees. The name Samyeling, which is also another name for Majnu-ka-tilla, translates to “Little Tibet”.
Today, Majnu-ka-tilla is one of the coolest areas in the city. With its close proximity to Delhi University and Ambedkar University, it is safe to say that this place is one of the most popular hang out zones for students. But that’s not the only reason why MT is always busy. This is also the point where all buses to and from Himachal Pradesh pick and drop travellers. So if you have taken a bus to Himachal Pradesh, you have been to Majnu-ka-tilla.
Exploring Majnu-ka-tilla mostly means three things: firstly, experiencing the vibrant local Tibetan culture; secondly, shopping for some really cool stuff like clothes, shoes and other Tibetan knick-knacks; and thirdly, diving into the awesome food culture. The area is full of Tibetan and Nepali eateries. Very recently some Korean eateries came up too and quickly became a rage!
The food scene is so strong here that a lot of people, even from the far corners of the city, come here for the food. Even the streetside laphing stalls have their own fanbase.
From the iconic White Rabbit candy and puffy winter jackets to steaming bowls of thukpa, find them all here. Come here during Losar to experience the festivities at the local Buddhist monastery.
